---
layout: about
title: About Vinicius Horewicz
date: 2013-11-06T12:15:00+01:00
---

I'm a 31-year-old software engineer from Brazil, living in Barcelona
with my [lovely wife](http://www.vanessamartins.med.br/).

I was born and raised in Brazil. My father was a colonel and telecom
engineer of the Brazilian Army, probably this is where my pragmatism and
passion for technology came from. That's also why I moved a lot.  I've
lived in four of the five regions of Brazil. We, sons of militaries,
joke about our chameleonic ability to adapt to new environments.

I'm passionate about well-designed code, simplicity and elegant
solutions. I strive to create maintainable software that is easy to
change and extend. I love object-oriented design. I'm also an advocate
of the [Unix philosophy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix_philosophy)
and behaviour driven development.

I believe open and clear communication is the key for a better life,
work and software. I always reflect and evaluate where I can improve my
talks and writings to be more straightforward, and my code to be more
expressive and intention revealing. "Clarity is better than cleverness"
is my mantra.

I love to automate things to make mine and others lives easier. I'm
constantly excited about creating genuinely meaningful value for people.
I have a keen eye on good user experience and interface, even though it
is not my expertise. That's why I appreciate to work hand-to-hand with
designers and customers, applying as much as possible top-down
approaches and specification by examples.

I've worked exclusively as a Unix-like systems and network manager for
more than 5 years. During my BSc in Computer Science I worked for the IT
service's main office of
[UFSC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universidade_Federal_de_Santa_Catarina)
and for the [RNP](https://www.rnp.br/en/rnp/) in the [Point of Presence
of Santa Catarina](http://www.pop-sc.rnp.br/) (PoP-SC), managing the
university's network and delivering services to support research,
learning and teaching.

For the last 8+ years I've been working mostly with software development
and agile practices. Such experience in multiple areas made me what
people call a "full stack web developer".

These days I'm working as a Ruby/Rails developer. I'm also giving Go and
Clojure a try. I'm interested in working with small teams, laser-focused
on one SaaS product and delivering __real__ value to customers. I hope
to collaborate with talented people in order to share and gain as much
knowledge as I can.

As an individual, I'm very friendly and optimistic. I love to teach.
It's priceless to see a person or a child overcome their obstacles after
your advice. I used to give
[Capoeira](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Capoeira) classes and I'm also
huge fan of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's Sherlock Holmes. When I'm away from
the computer, chances are you will find me pumping iron or training
capoeira.

